# Review TuneD

As we mentioned in the beginning, TuneD is distributed with a number of
predefined profiles.

A profile is a set of rules that defines certain system parameters such
as disk settings, kernel parameters, network optimization settings, and
many other aspects of the system.

During the installation, a profile for your system is automatically
selected based on the system information. For example, it may detect
that you are a virtual-guest and it will select that profile for you.
However, you may decide that you would rather run something else that
has a specific performance or power profile instead.

Letâ€™s take a look at what profiles are included by default:

[source,bash]
----
tuned-adm list profiles
----

It looks like our active profile is `+virtual-guest+` as stated on the
last line, and there are a handful of profiles available which are
listed under `+Available profiles+`

The default profiles are stored in a directory under
`+/usr/lib/tuned/$profilename+`, so lets go ahead and see what the
virtual-guest profile includes:

[source,bash]
----
cat /usr/lib/tuned/profiles/virtual-guest/tuned.conf | grep -v \^#
----

One of the great things about TuneD profiles are the ability to inherit
tunings from another profile. You will notice that on the output there
is a line that starts with `+include+`. This means you will bring in all
the settings for the throughput-performance profile in this
virtual-guest profile and then update two values `+vm.dirty_ratio+` and
`+vm.swappiness+` which are defined under the [sysctl] heading

Lets take a look at what is in the `+throughput-performance+` profile

[source,bash]
----
cat /usr/lib/tuned/profiles/throughput-performance/tuned.conf | grep -v \^#
----

You will notice that the throughput-performance profile has a lot of
tunings, including the two mentioned in the virtual-guest profile

The benefit of using include in our profiles is that we can inherit all
these settings and then just override the few we want to update in our
new profile

The child profile settings will take precedence over the duplicate
tunings in the parent profile

Lets move forward with the next step and create our own TuneD profile
and customize it for our use case
